# Billing-System-OR-Cafe-Restaurant-Managment-System-Using-Python-Tkinter-MySQL
Cafe Management System for a Restaurant shows all the available dishes along with prices, calculate bill, print and save receipt on database. It have different accounts for the cashier and Admin. Developed using Tkinter, Python and MySQL.
# Introduction:
The billing system is a combination of both hardware and software as it processes the data (Calculations etc) and prints (receipt/bill). The billing system is used widely in today’s sales department, food managements and many more. By keeping this thing in view we decided to use python concept to develop an application for our IST Mess.  Front end display of the project provides an easy to interact user-friendly display meanwhile the back end of the billing system periodically takes in accounts of admin. The project was built using the concepts of GUI, OOP (Python) and MYSQL.
# Explanation:
# Front-end Layout:
To start off our project front layout we required to import a few libraries from Python such as tkinter, datetime, random, tempfile, tokenize and os. Firstly a window would open requiring the username and password. Two button widgets would be displayed having cashier and admin on them which are connected with the classes Customer1 and Admin, by clicking on either will give you the privileges of the selected user. The Admin class would be able access the bill records, create & delete accounts and view employee’s data. The information such as passwords or username are encapsulated by taking them as private variables. The new data created would be saved in the database from where the admin class could access it. In case of incorrect username or password an exception in the form of a message box will be displayed meanwhile a success message is displayed when the required section is filled with the saved information.  The Customer1 class leads to the separate window of layout where it will display the menu of items. Several button widgets could be observed along with receipt and the bill calculation. The menu takes the values and stores them in its respective variable. Separate classes are made for each day of the week which allow the menu to change accordingly. A separate class is created for their buttons which inherits each of theirs functionality. The total button widget accesses the Total class which uses the get method to take the values stored in the variables of the selected menu option and uses the set method in bill generation. A reset class and a print class is made to format the value and print the receipt respectively. The exit class is used to quit the program.
# Back-end:
The basic purpose of the database was to keep the track of employee data and bill records. We have created an abstract class named Database with one constructor and three abstract methods. The purpose of constructor is to build the connection with the database and to create the cursor. Anything we do in database is done with the help of the cursor. Then this constructor is called with in the child classes. The implementation of the abstract method is in child classes. 
•	The create_table method creates the table, it takes no argument.
•	add_record method adds the record in to its respective table 
•	show_record method displays the data stored in their respective table. 
The add_record method of bill object takes five arguments (date, time, bill_no, tax, total) whereas add_record method of employee takes six arguments (name, password, age, dob, email, phone). The employee object has two additional method that is delect_record and fetch_record. Delete_record method is used to delete the record from the employee table, and it requires only one argument. The fetch_record method searches and returns the specific data from the table. It requires two arguments.



